.TH man 3 "$BUILD_DATE" "$VERSION" "espace man page"

.SH NAME
espace \- Error Space

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <espace/error.h>
.sp

ESPACE_DECLARE(prefix)
ESPACE_DEFINE(prefix, errstrs, errstrs_size)

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
ESPACE_DECLARE() 
declare ERROR_STORAGE and ERROR_STR_FN with prefix. This
macro SHOULD be put into header file '.h'. For example, if use
ESPACE_DECLARE(liba) will receive:

    // in single-thread program
    extern unsigned int liba_errno;
    
    // or in multi-thread program
    extern __thread int liba_errno;

    // and
    const char * liba_errstr(unsigned int code);

.B
ESPACE_DEFINE() 
define ERROR_STORAGE and implement ERROR_STR_FN. This
macro SHOULD be put into source file '.c'. For example, if use
ESPACE_DEFINE(liba, LIBA_ERRSTRS, LIBA_ERRSTRS_SIZE) will receive:

    // in single thread
    unsigned int liba_errno = 0;

    // or in multi-thread
    __thread unsigned int liba_errno = 0;

    // and
    const char * liba_errstr(unsigned int code)
    {...}

LIBA_ERRSTRS is array of pointers to ERROR_STRING correspond with
ERROR_CODE. LIBA_ERRSTRS_SIZE is number of elements in LIBA_ERRSTRS. Both
of them is your-definitions in your ERROR_CLASS For example:

    #define LIBA_ERRSTRS_SIZE 2
    const char * LIBA_ERRSTRS[LIBA_ERRSTRS_SIZE] = {
        "1rt Error",
        "2sd Error"
    };

.B
liba_errno 
is use to raise and handle ERROR by getting and setting such as:

    // raise error
    liba_errno = LIBA_E001;

    // handle error
    if (liba_errno == LIBA_E001) {
        // handle
    }

.B
liba_errstr() 
is use to convert ERROR_CODE to ERROR_STRING such as:

    printf("error string=%s\\n", liba_sterr(LIBA_E001));

For more detail about concepts and manual, see
"/usr/share/doc/espace/index.txt".

.SH EXAMPLES
See /usr/share/doc/espace/example/*.c

.SH FILES
.TP 4
/usr/lib/libespace.so
Dynamic library

.TP
/usr/include/espace/*.h
Header files.

.TP
/usr/share/man/man3/espace.3.gz
Manunal file.

.TP
/usr/share/doc/espace/*.txt
Document files.

.TP
/usr/share/doc/espace/example/*.c
Example files.

.SH REFERENCES 
Development repository at https://github.com/kevin-leptons/espace

.SH AUTHORS
Kevin Leptons <kevin.leptons@gmail.com>
